today we're bringing you a classic scene
from friends featuring Ross and Rachel
when they announced that they're having
a baby the topic of conversation shifts
to who came on to whom if you don't know
what this means stick around and watch
this hilarious lesson if you're new here
you will first watch each clip with
subtitles in English then we will teach
you all the most important vocabulary
pronunciation and cultural context
before moving on to the next clip
finally you will test everything you
learned by watching all the clips
without subtitles and answering some
quiz questions well it happened about 6
weeks ago and I had just got home from
work and Ross was already there I guess
he'd been hanging out with joking you're
welcome buddy
yeah thanks and so I had a lot of work
to do in Ross nice guy that he is
offered to help me out and then we had a
little wine we got to talking and next
thing you know out of nowhere Ross comes
on to me that's a little misleading what
is the lie you just told that you came
on to me that's the one that's what you
know what it's not important what's
important is that is that we're having a
baby
is that doesn't matter who came on to
who whom that's right you know you kiss
me first
what what you were begging me to kiss
you you you you sending me signals all
over the place I was sending you signals
oh please okay anyone in this room think
that I would actually send Ross begging
signals please show of hands what people
believe what matters is what happened
okay well so these signals Ross
explaining this to me cuz maybe I need
to be more careful I mean am i sending
you these signals right now you know
what Rachel just just drop it no please
show me how I begged you I can show you
I have it on videotape
it's an expression well it happened
about six weeks ago and I had just
gotten home from work and Ross was
already there I guess he'd been hanging
out with Joey
notice here the use of the past perfect
we use it to describe an action before
another action in the past we usually
use this tense together with a sentence
in the simple past example when we got
to the station our train had already
left this sentence explains an action
before another action in the past if we
used only the simple past we'd say
something like when we got to the
station our train left but in doing so
we would be explaining an action of
following another action instead in the
first example when they got to the
station the train was not there anymore
it had left in the second example they
arrived to the station and the train was
there but left in that moment or shortly
after it left let's look at some other
examples notice the past simple in
orange and the present perfect
ingredient I was tired when I got home
because I had worked all afternoon the
storm damaged the house where she had
lived for all her life I had already
finished the project when she offered to
help can you think of another example
practice your English by writing it in
the comments below she uses and so to
connect this sentence the previous one
as she tells the story but more commonly
this word is an informal alternative to
therefore Phoebe what are you doing here
well I heard you're having a problem
with one of the boys in your class and
so I thought I would just come down here
and sit you both down have a little talk
and make it all okay and then we have a
little wine we got to talking and next
thing you know out of nowhere Ross to me
Rachel says they got to talking this is
like saying we started talking next
thing you know is an expression that we
frequently use to describe an event or
action that happened suddenly
and as a result of another action
move in you start fighting over stupid
game rooms next thing you know you break
up baby are you serious yeah I was just
him there he came and he introduced
himself and the next thing I know would
make out you know then she says that out
of nowhere Ross came on to her out of
nowhere means suddenly unexpectedly
example it started to rain out of
nowhere this whole scene revolves around
the question of who came on to whom to
come on to someone it means to make
sexual advances on another person
there's an anthropologist at school who
totally came on to me during the
interdepartmental potluck dinner as this
is repeated so much in the scene pay
attention to the pronunciation that you
came on to me notice that it kind of
seems to all blend together this is
because of connected speech we reduce
the function words on to and me and
emphasize the content word came so
instead of you came on to me we get you
come on to me so oftentimes you don't
not understand natives because we speak
so fast but rather because you are not
accustomed to connected speech pay
attention to this throughout the scene
and do you want to learn to understand
and master native connected speech
patterns well a clue with French course
is perfect for you because you will
learn off the most common types of
native connected speech and greatly
improve your native comprehension in
doing so plus you get vocabulary
memorization software access to our
fluency circle global community and so
much more and you can try that for free
right now with our three-part master
class all you have to do is click up
here or down the scription below to
learn more and sign up that's a little
misleading
what is the lie you just told if
something is misleading it causes
someone to believe something that is not
true in fact Tobias had even produced a
videotape but its brief success was due
to its misleading name once this was
discovered all the ten of the videos
were returned problem
the online description was completely
misleading they said eight slots plus
removable ID to any rational person that
would mean a room for nine cards but
they don't tell you the removable ID
takes up one slot then oh it's important
is that is that we're having a baby is
that doesn't matter who came on to who
whom that's right
hello it's funny that Joey of all people
would point out incorrect grammar he's
right the correct use of whom is a bit
of a mystery to most native speakers who
is used as a subject and whom as an
object to understand this think how we
say he and sometimes him but we never
mix them you say I told him but not I
told he when who is in object position
it should actually be whom in reality
it's not so uncommon to use who as an
object so not saying it as whom is not
actually a serious mistake here are some
examples of whom with whom are you going
to the party who are you going to the
party with the person to whom we spoke
was very helpful the person who he spoke
to was very helpful both of these
sentences could be said with who and few
native speakers would say it's
grammatically incorrect although it's
useful to understand the rule saying
whom can seem awkward and unnatural
unless you're in a very formal situation
or writing an academic essay 99% of the
time who should be your first choice
here's a brilliant scene from the TV
series The Office instead of the
question of when to use who or whom this
is about when to use whoever versus
whomever these words follow the same
grammatical rule we explained for
who and whom just so you know when this
character says to whomever he's using
the word correctly then out of all the
funny points that different workers make
she's the only one who's actually right
about how to use whomever what I really
want honestly Michael is for you to know
it so that you can communicate it to the
people here to your clients to whomever
okay what it's whoever not whomever
that's whomever no whomever is never
actually right not sometimes it's right
Michael is right it's a made-up word
used to trick student jump actually
whomever is the formal version of the
word obviously it's a real word but I
don't know when to use it correctly not
a native speaker I know what's right but
I'm not gonna say because you're all
jerks who didn't come see my band last
night
do you really know which one is correct
I don't know its whom when it's the
object of the Sanderson who when is the
subject that sounds right it sounds
right but is this anyone use it as an
option as an object I use me as an
object you know you kiss me first
what do we begging me to kiss you to beg
it means to ask something in an anxious
or urgent way because you want it very
much example the kids begged their mom
to buy them some candy Howard please I'm
begging you
Roger our group historian as Sheldon
never begged before three times he
begged the Fox Network not to cancel
Firefly back the TNT network to cancel
Babylon 5
and when he got food poisoning at the
Rose Bowl parade he begged a deity he
doesn't believe in to end his life
quickly you-you-you sending me signals
all over the place I was sending you
signals please okay anyone in this room
think that I would actually send Ross
begging signals please show of hands a
signal is a gesture action or sound that
is used convey information or
instructions in this case
Ross is saying that Rachel was doing
things to tell him in an indirect way
that she wanted to have sex with him
example she signaled to her dog to sit
and wait this is an alternative way to
call people to raise their hands to vote
or decide about something example show
of hands who wants pizza and who wants
Chinese you know what Rachel just just
drop it we say drop the subject or
simply drop it so that someone stops
talking about something that annoys you
or upsets you okay look can we just drop
this I'm not gonna smoke again that's
right
because I forbid you to smoke again you
forbid me mm-hmm you know I've flown a
long way to see my loving wife is she
here by the way hey there so every week
we help learners like do you understand
fast speaking natives without getting
lost without missing the jokes and
without subtitles just like she well we
said that thanks to our Channel when he
travels
people are really blown away by how
great his English is and you can improve
your English a lot too all you have to
do is hit that subscribe button and the
bell down below so you don't miss any of
our new lessons no please show me how I
begged you I can't show you I have it on
videotape it's an expression what he
means here is something that as an
English Learner you probably know very
well expressions or idioms in English do
not always have a literal meaning he's
hoping here that they will believe that
to have it on videotape is some kind of
expression that means something else and
not what the phrase actually means it's
not uncommon to hear this as a humorous
excuse people try to make when they say
something they wish they hadn't
at this point of course Rachael gets
really upset a Ross for videotaping her
Ross however has a reason and
explanation for this which you'll see
later Rachel is not something I planned
okay look here's what happened and Joey
you can back me up on this
all right about about a month and a half
ago remember I came to you with a
problem a personal thing what personal
thing about about sex that I hadn't had
sex in months yeah I know you're talking
about
[Applause]
[Music]
hey I have a date tonight it has to go
well okay I'm scared for my health
okay oh oh I got something okay it's
this story that I came up with very
romantic I swear any woman that hears it
they're like putty really well they tell
it to me years ago when I was
backpacking across Western Europe you
were backpacking across Western Europe
have a nice six more months for us I'm
sorry please please you were in Western
Europe and okay look here's what
happened and Joey you can back me up on
this all right about about a month and a
half ago remember I came to you with the
problem he has Joey to back him up here
because he thinks Joey can support what
he's about to say and let the guys know
that he's in fact telling the truth when
you need support from another person you
usually tell them to back you up it's
not just me I mean the scientists and
the tour guides never sit together it's
like that everywhere Joey okay mom back
me up here will you work the the waiters
eat with the waiters right and the chefs
eat with the other chefs right I eat by
myself in the alley because everybody
hates me then the way Ross says he came
to joy with a problem he means that he
turned to joy for help by the way did
you notice how Ross pronounced the word
can here neeta's rarely fully pronounced
can in normal speech rather it reduces
to kin and joy you can back me up on
this and joy you can back me up on this
check out these other examples from TV
series living in a van for six years
they can wait a little longer don't can
I get you anything you can go I'll get
the information no I have a date tonight
it has to go well okay I'm scared for my
health
okay
oh I got something this is what we say
when an idea has just come to us I have
to finish this lesson then I highly
recommend you check out this playlist
featuring all of our lessons with Rachel
and Ross from friends okay it's a story
that I came up with very romantic I
swear any woman that hears if they're
like putty to come up with something
means to invent something or think of
something such as an idea or plan he
said Joey you stink at lyin what am i
God don't worry we'll come up with a
good lie I'll help you practice putty is
a soft malleable substance that is used
for various purposes in construction
however if we say someone is like putty
it means that they are easily influenced
or manipulated much like putty is easily
molded in one's hands so basically what
Joey means here is that after women hear
this story
he becomes irresistible to them and they
will do whatever he wants
years ago when I was backpacking across
Western Europe you were backpacking
across Western Europe a backpack is a
large bag used to carry things on your
back as a verb to backpack means to
travel while carrying your clothes and
other things that you need in a backpack
example we backpacked around Thailand
notice the preposition this verb takes
Joey says a cross but you can also say
through or around Europe although Joey
has found that this made of story can be
useful for seducing women Ross doesn't
have much success with it you know a few
years ago actually I was backpacking
across Western Europe really mm-hmm wait
it gets better
yeah I was in Barcelona I studied for a
year in Barcelona
[Music]
anyway um so I was um I was hiking I
love hiking
that's great
I was hiking along the foothills of
mount tibidabo I think it stupid dog
okay do you want to tell the story show
me how you did it no I don't know one
who how long since you seen a girl naked
I was backpacking across Western Europe
I'm not feeling it try this do what I do
when I'm preparing for an audition okay
I'll set you up with my video camera and
you can record yourself and and see what
you're doing wrong I'll try that all
right now you're all set up you're good
to go just hit record all right good
luck
hello Oh Ross but thank god you're here
you have to help me were you just
talking to yourself that's less
embarrassing yes yes I was so when she
came in I got distracted and totally
forgot about the camera it kept rolling
and recorded everything I wanted to see
it what clearly you don't want people to
see this tape now I don't want people to
see this tape either but you so badly
don't want people to see it that it
makes I want to see it do you see are we
watching the tape or not I don't want
people to see it for your sake oh I
don't believe you I think you don't want
them to see you begging me Rachel please
Oh a little preview
fine but I want the record to show that
I tried to take the high road because in
about five minutes I'm gonna be saying
so when she came in I got distracted and
totally forgot about the camera it kept
rolling and recorded everything when you
say that a camera is rolling you mean
that it's recording
keep it rolling as a common alternative
way you can say it keep recording now I
don't want people to see this tape
either but you so badly don't want
people to see it that it makes I want to
see it do you see do you see means do
you understand this is funny because she
is using this rather poetically as she
said the literal meaning of see a couple
times before and badly usually
collocates with want to add emphasis to
that verb although badly is the correct
form of this word when used in this way
as an adverb many people tend to use the
adjective form bad compare I want to go
back home so badly with God if you want
a baby so bad just go steal it I don't
want people to see it for your sake when
you do something for someone's sake you
do it in order to benefit help or bring
an advantage to someone Roz is saying
that he doesn't want to show the guys
the tape to keep her from showing she's
actually wrong in this example they were
very unhappily married but kept up
appearances for the sake of their
children sometimes we say for the sake
of God or for God's sake as an
exclamation joy for God's sake go to
work
fine but I want the record to show that
I tried to take the high road it caused
in about five minutes I'm gonna be
saying if someone takes the high road
they choose the course of action which
is the most moral or acceptable and
which is least likely to harm or upset
other people okay but imagine I mean we
should before you cross him you know
what I'll only look better if I take the
high road you know help out backstage
let him have his moment
so we we both wanted to interesting move
anyway probably worked out for the best
oh yeah sure
train about 10 seconds you're gonna see
him kiss me and in about five seconds
you're gonna see why Rasta Knight ever
tell you about the time that I went
backpacking through Western Europe
okay ready to see some beggin you came
on to Ross what well I'm so happy what
are you talking about you used the
Europe story
that's the magic story you use when you
want to have sex story how do you know
about that story I heard it from my
friend Irene who heard it from some guy
some guy
she told me that his name was Ken Adams
you
well it happened about six weeks ago and
I had just gotten home from work and
Ross was already there I guess he'd been
hanging out with Joey you're welcome
buddy
yeah thanks and so I had a lot of work
to do and Ross nice guy that he is
offered to help me out and then we had a
little wine we got to talking and next
thing you know out of nowhere Ross comes
on to me that's a little misleading
what is the lie you just told that you
came on to me that's the one that's what
you know what it's not important oh it's
important is that that we're having a
baby is that doesn't matter who came on
to who boom that's right you know you
kiss me first what what you were begging
me to kiss you you you you sending me
signals all over the place I was sending
you signals please okay anyone in this
room think that I would actually send
Ross begging signals please show of
hands yeah it doesn't matter it doesn't
matter what people believe what matters
is what happened okay well so these
signals Ross explain this to me cuz
maybe I need to be more careful I mean
am i sending you these signals right now
you know what Rachel just just drop
[Music]
no please show me how I begged you I can
show you I have it on videotape
it's an expression rachel is not
something I planned okay look here's
what happened and Joey you can back me
up on this all right about about a month
and a half ago remember I came to you
with a problem a personal thing what
personal thing
about about sex that I hadn't had sex in
months
yeah I know what you're talking about
[Applause]
[Music]
Hey I have a date tonight it has to go
well okay I'm scared for my health
okay oh I got something okay it's this
story that I came up with very romantic
I swear any woman that hears it they're
like putty really well they tell it to
me years ago when I was backpacking
across Western Europe you were
backpacking across Western Europe have a
nice six more months for us I'm sorry
please please you were in Western Europe
and so when she came in I got distracted
and totally forgot about the camera
it kept rolling and recorded everything
I wanted to see it what clearly you
don't want people to see this tape now I
don't want people to see this tape
either but you so badly don't want
people to see it that it makes me I want
to see it do you see are we watching the
tape or not I don't want people to see
it for your sake oh I don't believe you
I think you don't want them to see you
begging me Rachel please a little
preview
fine but I want the record to show that
I tried to take the high road because in
about five minutes I'm gonna be saying
so we we both wanted to interesting
anyway probably worked out for the best
yeah sure
train about ten seconds you're gonna see
him kiss me and in about five seconds
you're gonna see why roster day ever
tell you about the time that I went
backpacking through Western Europe
okay ready to see some beggin oh you
came on the Ross
what well I'm so happy what are you
talking about you use the Europe story
that's the magic story you use when you
want to have sex how do you know about
that story I heard it from my friend
Irene who heard it from some guy some
guy
she told me that his name was Ken Adams
right I hope you have an awesome time
today learned a ton and now that you
know the difference between who and whom
maybe you want to check out some of our
other lessons teaching you about English
grammar now it's time to go beyond the
classroom and live your English oh yeah